# Emitting Events

Now, let's give our components the ability to response to user input, including mutating our app state.

## Removing a task

To remove a task, users will click on the X icon we brought in from font-awesome. So we'll start by adding a click handler to the icon itself:

```vue
<font-awesome-times-icon @click="onDelete(task.id)" class="fas" icon="times"/>
```

And then we'll define this handler in our Vue options object:

```ts
  export default defineComponent({
    name: 'Task',
    props: {
      task: {
        type: Object as PropType<TaskObject>
      }
    },
    methods: {
      onDelete(id) {
        this.$emit('delete-task', id)
      }
    }
  });
```

Aha -- we've seen this ```this.$emit``` method before, when we learned about how to type our emits. ```$emit``` is a Vue component method that allows you to pass custom events up the component tree. Therefore, it seems that we're making this ```'delete-task'``` event available to our Tasks component, by way of it being the parent of this one. And along with that event comes a payload, namely the ```id``` of the task we mean to delete.

So, while we can save this file and see that our app still compiles, we'll need to actually handle the event in one of our Task's ancestral components. Or more than one! In fact, we'll be sending this task id all the way up to where our tasks live right now -- our App.vue component.

To do that, we change our Task component call in Tasks:

```vue
<Task @delete-task="$emit('delete-task', task.id)" :task="task" />
```

This is an example of a more expeditious way to handle this. Rather than us defining a custom event handler and placing it in our component's ```methods``` prop, we can simply call ```$emit``` from the event we've defined itself.

However, we still have to define this emit in the Tasks component options themselves:

(components/Tasks.vue)
```ts
  export default defineComponent({
    // ...
    emits: ['delete-task'],
    // ...
  })
```

So, in the end, doing it this way isn't *that* much shorter.

And then, following the event up the tree, we can do the same thing in our App.vue file (again defining a custom handling function, this time):

(App.vue)
```vue
<Tasks @delete-task="deleteTask" :tasks="tasks"/>
```

And since we've assigned the handler ```deleteTask``` to handle our custom ```delete-task``` event, we'll define that method (well, a boilerplate version, for now) in App.vue as well.

(App.vue)
```ts
export default defineComponent({
    //...
    methods: {
      deleteTask(id: string) {
        console.log('task', id)
      }
    },
    //...
})
```

Save the file -- now when we click on the delete buttons, we'll see the the task's id logged in the console. Great!