# Mutating App State

To complete our task deletion functionality, we'll need to mutate our collection of tasks within App.vue. To do this, we'll finish the ```deleteTask``` method on our App component.

(App.vue)
```ts
/// {
    methods: {
      deleteTask(id: string) {
        this.tasks = this.tasks.filter((task) => {
          if (task.id === id && confirm(`Are you sure you want to delete task ${task.text}?`)) {
            return false
          } else {
            return true
          }
        })
      }
    },
/// }
```

Here we're simply updating the App component's tasks property with a copy of the tasks, less the one we've deleted. And we've put that action behind a simple ```confirm()``` box as well.

Next, let's do the same with our ```reminder``` toggle -- we want a double-click on the task to set its reminder state to ```true```. We'll do this using the shorthand method rather than by defining a custom handler event. So, back in Task.vue:


(Task.vue)
```vue
  <div @dblclick="$emit('toggle-reminder', task.id)" :class="[task && task.reminder ? 'reminder' : '', 'task']" class="task">
    ...
  </div>
```

Interestingly, we *don't* have to add this dblclick event to the emits, unlike when we added ```@delete-task``` to our Tasks.vue. This seems to be because @dblclick is a built-in event. If we were making up our own @ event handler, we'd need to include it in ```emits```. (Todo: confirm this is the case)

We do need to repeat that step, again, though, since we're now handling a custom 'toggle-reminder' event to Tasks.vue:

(Tasks.vue)
```vue
  <Task @toggle-reminder="$emit('toggle-reminder', task.id)" @delete-task="$emit('delete-task', task.id)" :task="task" />
```

(Tasks.vue)
```ts
/// {
  emits: ['delete-task', 'toggle-reminder'],
/// }
```

And we'll continue wiring this event up the ol' virtual DOM, wrapping up in App.vue:

(App.vue)
```vue
  <Tasks @toggle-reminder="toggleReminder" @delete-task="deleteTask" :tasks="tasks"/>
```

And finally, mutating the state to toggle the reminder prop between true and false:

(App.vue)
```ts
/// {
    methods: {
    //...
      toggleReminder(id: string) {
        this.tasks = this.tasks.map(task => { 
          if (task.id === id) { 
            return { 
              ...task, 
              reminder: !task.reminder 
            } 
          } else { 
            return task 
          }
        })
      }
    },
    // ...
/// }
```

Now we save the file -- and immediately, we can double-click to toggle the reminder (and its green left border) on and off. Sick!

Clicking is still highlighting text, though, which isn't the greatest. Let's step away from the tutorial a little bit and figure out how to prevent this.

It turns out that Vue provides some [event modifiers](https://v3.vuejs.org/guide/events.html#event-modifiers) that you can use to quickly deal with unwanted default effects and/or propagation.

In practice, I found that using ```@dblclick.prevent``` dealt with some of the unwanted highlighting that was happening when I double-clicked on the div.

But if I double-clicked on the text -- which covers a significant portion of our double-click target -- it still happens.

It turns out, at least in Chrome, that the text selection action for double-clicking happens not as part of the double-click event (which fires after the second mouseup), but rather after the second 'mousedown' event of the doubleclick. So, I added the following method to Task.vue:

```vue
  preventDefault(event: MouseEvent) {
    if (event.detail === 2) {
      event.preventDefault();
    }
  }
```

And I assigned it to the text tags, ```<h3/>``` and ```<p/>```:

```vue
    <h3 @mousedown="preventDefault">
    ...
    </h3>
```

Now, double-clicking no longer causes selection. However, click and dragging, or triple-clicking, does. It's still not the best -- I think if I had designed this tutorial, I might have made the double-click target for the reminder toggle out of a specific region of the div, like its left edge, rather than the entire thing, which is covered by other stuff. Anyway, it's a bit improved now.